---
layout: post
title:  "Be a Git"
date:   2015-10-25
---

<p class="intro"><span class="dropcap">L</span>orem Vesion cntrol, version cntrol, version control, is crucial to programming.  Put simply, as changes are made to the code they are saved along with a message describing what implementation of the code is meant to accomplish. This provides coders with the tools required to effectively turn on and off any change that has been made to the code.  Maintaining good version control hygiene means as bugs crop up, you can return to the most recent functioning code, locate what’s changed between the functional and non-functional code, and repair it.</p>

As you are first learning to code, you will largely be working on simple code by yourself.  And while you can see the advantages of version control in that environment, it really becomes crucial once you begin working on large teams on massive projects.

‘Of course, I already save my changes…’ you may be saying.  Well that’s good, but version control is more akin to a meta-save than the ‘command s’ you’re used to.  The main tool for this job is called Git.  Git is a program that you run from your command line that saves all the changes you made to the project along with a message describing what the change is meant to accomplish.  Additionally it knows exactly where those changes were made, points them out, and fixes all your bugs for you… well not the last bit, but those first two makes the process of fixing the bugs much easier job for you.

Additionally, Git, works in concert with GitHub.  GitHub is sort of like cloud storage for your code.  Functionally, however, GitHub is a bit more like a giant repository for coders everywhere.  Sure, it’s nice to have your code stored off your computer, at this point we’re all well versed in the benefits of cloud storage, but the real benefit comes from the openness of GitHub.   Coders will often upload their projects to GitHub and make it publically available so fellow coders can access it and incorporate it into their projects (This website for example).  This collaborative environment is a cornerstone of the coding community, and will be immensely useful as you develop your career as a developer.

So really what I’m saying, is good version control makes you a valued, participant in one of the worlds largest collaborative communities. Pretty neat eh!?